Using Arch Linux ARM on the HP TouchPad
=======================================

After installing Arch Linux ARM on the HP TouchPad, you'll need a few
extra cables to plug in a keyboard/mouse, at least until we develop a
way to turn on Wi-Fi so you can connect to your TouchPad over SSH or
VNC to turn on Bluetooth to pair with keyboards.

But for now, let's talk about the HP TouchPad's microUSB port.
It has OTG capabilities, but using them is a pain and is much harder
than you'd expect. A $3 microUSB-to-USB OTG adapter won't work. You
need to buy an adapter with "host" capabilities. A link to such an
adapter is given below.

But, you're not ready yet. You won't like this next paragraph because it
makes little sense and seems pointless, but you'll need a special
"Y-cable" to provide power to the TouchPad. A link is given below to a
known working one.

The reasoning behind this is that the TouchPad puts the USB port into
"low power" sleep mode unless there is current flowing into it. So
plugging in an OTG cable and a keyboard or even a powered hub won't
work because you have no way of providing power to the USB port on the
TouchPad, so the port will stay in sleep mode. The Y-cable solves this
problem by charging the TouchPad while letting you use a keyboard. This
cable is a bit expensive ($15 on Amazon), but for now, it's the only
way.

Here's how to hook everything up:

|PC USB port|[ <-------Y cable-----------[ <-----|Keyboard/Mouse/Hub|
                                  |
                                  |
|TouchPad|[<--OTG Cable--[ <-------

Basically, connect one of the Y-cable's male ends into a PC and the
other into the TouchPad's OTG adapter cable. Plug in a keyboard or hub
into the Y-cable's female end.

It's magic, really.
